All right so in this video we're going to create a custom widget for our theme.
So we have this Showcase area and I just want to create a widget that can take in a title and send text
and spit it out right here in this widget position.
So if you look at this documentation page this is for the widget API.
Basically what we need to do is create a class that extends W.P. widget and it's going to have a few
different methods that will have a constructor to call the constructor of the parent class and also
set up the title and description and then we have the widget method which will output the content of
the widget.
We have the form method which will output the admin form and then we have the update which will take
care of updating any fields.
Now we're going to do is we're going to go into the WP content folder and then plug ins and we're going
to create a new folder there and we're going to call it showcase dash what's called showcase dash widget
because although it is a plug in it's also a widget.
So let's go ahead and create a new file here and this is going to be called same thing showcase widget
dot HP.
And then one more file.
This is going to be the class file.
So we're going to save it as class Daut
showcase widget ph Ph.D..
All right.
So the showcase widget dog page file is going to be the main file but the class is going to be where
we will do most of the most of the functionality.
All right so what we want to do in this file is we want to open up a comment block ok and go like that
.
And this right here we're going to say plug in a name which will be a showcase widget
and we're going to do description
simple Showcase area version 1.0.
And let's do one more which will be the offer.
OK.
Now we want to include the class file
so say conclude and let's put in here.
Class art showcase
widget ph p.
And then we need to register the widget.
So we want function
register showcase widget
and then we're going to call the register widget function and pass on to showcase underscore widget
.
So this needs to be whatever your class name is.
OK so that's what we'll name the class.
And then we just need the ADD action.
So actually we're going to say widgets in net and then we just want
register showcase widget and that's it for this file.
So let's go into the class file now and I'm actually going to grab this from the documentation this
sample.
Ok I'll paste that in.
We need ph tags though.
Now I don't want this to take forever.
So we're going to be doing some copying and pasting.
First of all I want to change the name of it from my widget to showcase widget and then let's take a
look at the constructor.
So for now I'm going to just get rid of what's in there and then just paste my code in.
So what we were doing here is we're calling the parent constructor the parent.
Is this W.P. widget class OK.
And then we're just putting in an idea of showcase widget.
We have the name showcase widget and then we have a description down here.
OK in a text domain which can be anything you like I just use text domain.
All right so constructor's pretty simple.
This widget method here.
This will display the front end of the widget.
So we basically need three things we need the title of the widget we need the heading which is this
here and then we need a field for the text which is that.
So I want to just paste this in real quick.
OK so we have our title.
Now we're setting these to the instance K instance heading instance text that that represents what is
in the database for those values.
All right.
So we're going to stay in the same method and we'll pay some other stuff in.
All right so the args we have before widget after widget.
OK that's in case we want custom tags or whatever we want to go before and after.
We also have them available for the title we have before title after title.
So for instance if you wanted to use an H for the title you could do that or H-1 whatever you want.
All right and then down here this actually shouldn't be form the sheet the display content.
And I'm going to have a function called Get content.
All right.
We're passing in the heading in the text from up here.
And then of course we have the after widget.
So before we move on to these let's create this get content
.
And that takes in the heading and text
Ok let's just paste this in.
And this could have very well just went right here but I liked her.
Kind of separated a little bit.
So what we're doing is we have a variable called output.
We're sending it to a template here with the H-1 the text and then we'll just have a button.
OK and then we're just returning the output.
All right.
So that's actually B that's actually going here.
We're calling it.
All right so let's go down to the form this represents the back end form where we can actually put the
heading in the text and stuff like that.
OK let me just paste this part in.
So what we're doing is we're checking to see if there's a title if there is we're setting it the variable
to whatever is in the instance if there's not then we're just going to set it to showcase widget.
All right and then we also need to get the heading and the text we're pulling that those from the instance
as well.
Now for the actual back end form it's it's a lot of HTML sort I'm going to do is just and the page here
and then continue it right here and then we can put all the aged him out here.
All right so I'm going to go ahead and paste this in.
And it's quite a bit.
You need to pause it.
That's fine.
But basically we have a couple of paragraphs and they contain a label for each field and then the input
case you can see for the label we have we can echo out this get field ID.
And what we want is the title.
All right.
And then for the input we have an ID same thing get field ID and then the name of the field which is
title and then right here for the name we have get field name title and then for the value we're using
the title variable.
All right we're just escaping it with escape attribute escape after all right.
We're doing the same thing here for the heading and then the same thing for the text.
Ok so it's really quite simple even though it looks like a lot of code.
So next you want to go to the update method.
This is where when we add a heading and text in the back end and we click save.
This is what saves it.
All right so we just grab some code here are then.
So we have an instance which equals an block an empty array and then we're saying instance title equals
whatever is in the new instance k whatever is saved as the title.
Same thing with the heading we're setting it to the new instance heading.
And same with the text and then we're just returning that instance.
OK so this will update whatever we put in for the fields in the back and widget form.
All right so let's go ahead and save that and what we'll do.
Now make sure both files are saved or go in the back end here and let's reload and then go to plug ins
and you can see right here we have the showcase widget as a description the version the name.
And we're going to click activate.
OK.
So we click activate and then if we go to appearance
it's whole week oh you know what we didn't set up a widget position yet.
So let's go into functions Dopp ph P and our themes folder and we're going to set up our widget locations
.
So I'm going to go down to the bottom of the file and paste this in.
All right.
So what we're doing here is we have a function called M-S widgets and we have two places where we want
widgets.
One is on the side bar and one is in the showcase for the widget we just created.
All right.
And we have in our Sidebar we want the div class call out to wrap around the whole widget and then the
title we want to be in H3 right down here we're calling our action on widgets and net and then we're
just inputting the name of our function M-S in widgets.
All right so let's save that and go back to the back end and reload and now under appearance we can
now see widgets we click that and see we have the sidebar and the showcase available.
And if we go down here you can see our showcase widget which is the plugin we just created.
So let's go ahead and add that to the showcase area.
All right.
So we have our title on we're going to do is get rid of the title and for the heading we'll say discount
clothing.
And for the text I'm just going to copy what we have here.
OK save that.
Go back to actually the front ends not going to change yet because we didn't implement it in the template
but you can see that the content has saved.
So what we need to do now is go into our index P2P file and go down to where we have this showcase area
.
And before we actually show it we want to check to make sure that it's enabled so we're going to save
ph P if and we can use is active sidebar which we've used in past projects and the widget position is
going to be showcase
down here will do in END-IF
.
And now we want to do is replace the H-1 paragraph and Button and we want to get rid of that and then
we're going to save ph P dynamic underscore side bar
and pass in the name of the position which is showcase.
Save that let's go check out the front end and we get discount clothing.
So just to make sure that it's actually reading our widget Let's go and change this to discount clothings
and save go to the front end reload and we get discount clothings So we know that this is coming from
our custom Plug-In.
All right.
And we created a plug in that is not only not only able to use it on this theme you can use it anywhere
.
All right.
So in the next video we're going to take care of the sidebar widgets we want this categories to actually
come from WordPress categories.
All right so we will get into that next